I"Q<p>The Goal of Venture Capital
VC is a financial product sold to instructional investors (LPs) – endowments, pensions, insurance companies, family offices. It’s ultimately measured by return on investment. No more, no less.</p>

<p>What makes VC unique among other financial products is that it focuses on high-risk, high-growth early stage equity investments. Because of the risk, VCs want to make investments that they believe will return 10x their invested capital in under than 10 years. Put another way, they have to identify companies that will have at least a 25% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) . 
The Risk Framework
If a founder is talking to a VC they believe their company will grow at 25% YoY. But of course there is some risk they might be wrong. Making good investments is then about understanding that risk – if the company doesn’t achieve that (and most don’t) why won’t they? What are all the ways the company could fail?</p>

<p>So I use risk to drive my evaluation framework. I try to think about every way a company could fail and understand how much of a risk that particular pitfall poses for the company in question. Of course, the less risk, the better the investment. But no investments at this stage, by definition, are risk free. And I keep this up to date – every time I see a startup fail in a new way, I add it to this list.</p>

<p>My four big buckets are: Product, Business Model, Market, and Team (PMMT). There also a fifth bucket of reasons why a particular VC won’t invest in a company (irrespective of PMMT) and I call those “Fund”. So PMMT + F. Not the world’s most memorable acronym. I’m open to suggestions.</p>

<p>Product
Product Risk
Understanding the problem being solved. Does the company solve a real problem? What is the customer/user pain? Do people want this? need this? 
Solution Design Risk 
What’s the quality of the product solution being proposed?
Engineering Risk
Can it be built? Is it technically feasible? Can it be built within a reasonable timeframe and cost? What would cause that to be wildly off?</p>

<p>Business Model
Revenue Risk
Does the company have a path to significant and scalable revenue? What are its sales and distribution channels? What’s the go to market strategy? Does the company need to manage inventory? If so, what’s the inventory strategy and inventory risk?
Profitability Risk 
What are the costs of the business? How do fixed and variable costs scale? How long will it take for LTV &gt; CAC? Will that scale? How does profitability shift over time?<br />
Supplier and Partner Risks
What is the supply chain requirements? Are there are single points of failure or dependencies on a single supplier or partner? What is the balance between supply power and buyer power? 
Capitalization Risks
What’s the burn rate and runway? Does the company have access to the capital it needs to succeed? If not, when will it need more investment and what are the risks surrounding that. 
Growth Risks
Is the customer acquisition funnel healthy? What is engagement like? Retention / renewal? Is there a referral or viral component? What are the growth KPIs (activation rate, engagement, retention/churn, referral)?
Market
Ceiling / Addressable Market Risk
How big is the market? How much of it is truly addressable? How much will be addressable later and what are the costs of market entry?
Market Dynamics Risk
How is the market evolving – growing, shrinking, moving? What would cause it to grow less quickly than we believe? What would cause it to shrink? 
Competition / Substitution Risk
What must people substitute away from to use this product? What would people substitute this product with? What’s moats or competitive advantages are there to prevent substitution? 
Commoditization Risk
Are there any natural monopolistic assets? Intellectual property (patents)? Network effects? What creates differentiation and prevent commoditization? 
Regulatory Risk
Are there regulatory, legal, or policy issues that the company is going to run up against? 
Team
Founder Quality Risk
Are these first time founders or repeat entrepreneurs? What’s the quality of their skillset, experience, and mindset? How smart are they? How focused are they? How gritty are they? What’s their EQ? Are they the type of people others want to believe in, work with, work for? Are they convincing? Do they have networks they can leverage?
Team Cohesion Risk
Founding team interpersonal issues make up a surprisingly large number of early stage failures. And anyone who’s watched an All Star team play knows you can’t throw together A players and expect a team as good as the sum of the parts.</p>

<p>Have the founders worked together before? Are the skillsets &amp; personalities complementary? Are their incentives aligned? Have they gelled as a team? Are there clear roles and responsibilities? Is there a clear/accepted leader? How are critical decisions made? 
Management / Key Employee Quality Risk
What’s the quality of the skillset, experience, and mindset of the companies key hires? Do they have leadership for the critical areas of their business / stage? Is leadership competent and stable? 
Insight (Domain Expertise) Risk
Do the founders have any domain expertise they can leverage that gives them unique insights into the problem space? What makes them the best people to solve the problem? What advantage do they have over other entrepreneurs? 
Hiring &amp; Retention Risk
Will the company be able to hire great people in a scalable way? What’s it’s offer acceptance rate? Does it have access to quality talent pools? Will the company be able to retain people? What is it’s attrition rate? 
Culture and Operations Risk
Will the leadership team (founders and early/senior hires) create a healthy culture for the company? Does it feel like something special? Is it a place that people are really excited to work at? Are people co-located or remote? Are they able to collaborate and operate in effective ways?</p>

<p>Fund
Thesis
Does the company fit the fund’s investment focus and thesis and strategic goals?<br />
Liquidity
What are the prospects for liquidity within the desired timeframe? Do the founders want to scale to an exit or not? Is it an area that has active acquirers or not? If yes, who are they? Is IPO a realistic exit prospect given the company focus, growth prospects, and state of public markets? 
Portfolio
How well does the company fit within the rest of the fund’s portfolio? Would there be a conflict of interest with any other portfolio investments? Do the markets targeted by the company add specific risk (we already have exposure) or diversify to the total risk exposure of the portfolio?</p>
:ET